Hello everyone and welcome to part four dictionaries.
Dictionaries are Python's version of hash tables.
And back when we were working javascript these were known as objects.
And again they allow us to create a mapping of key value pairs in something to really know about dictionaries
is that they do not retain any order.
They only have a key value pair system.
Let's get started learning about the most important aspects of Python dictionaries.
Let's talk to the editor now.
OK let's start learning about dictionaries.
First of all create a variable called my stuff and we can have curly brackets which defines a dictionary.
And then we'll have a key.
We'll make one key one and then we have a colon separating its value for instance will have value and
then a comma separated the next key value pair.
So again we'll have a string here to colon.
And then value two.
And if we want to actually grab a value you'd call it by its key.
So I will print my stuff and then add square brackets passen the Kitwana.
So let's say key one save this and I will say Python and I've called this script notes that PI enter.
And I get back value.
And if I switch this to key to save this run this again I get volume 2.
Again very similar to how objects worked in Javascript.
And it's important to note that dictionaries are very flexible and the data types they can hold.
So for instance this could have been a number.
This could have been a string I could've created in other key called G-3 and that could've had another
dictionary inside of it with another key one two three and a list of items here.
So this is totally doable with Python.
And if I just say print my stuff you can save this.
Run this.
And here we have the entire dictionary.
Now notice here that the dictionary was not printed out in the same order that I defined it up here.
So again note dictionaries do not retain any sort of order.
But let's imagine that I wanted to grab a particular item from this nested dictionary inside of a list.
I'll call this grabbed me.
So I want to grab the string called grab me how to actually get it from my stuff.
Well the first thing I need to do is work from the outside in.
So from the inside out Scuse me we see here that we are the third item in the list meaning I'm an index
too so I can start getting that in the brackets.
Then I'm at this key.
One two three.
So we'll have that as well.
That string and then that is with this key key three
and then finally that whole thing belongs to the dictionary called my stuff.
So if I add this these layers first go to key three then grab a key one two three then grab index two.
Let's save this.
Run it and I see I have the string grab me.
OK.
So that's just a little practice exercise for you to check out and what I can do is keep calling stuff
off of this.
So let's say I called Upper off of that run this and I see grabbed me in all caps.
Hopefully you will never see something this nested But keep in mind that Python does make it possible.
Am pretty straightforward honestly.
Now let's talk about how to reassign dictionary items.
Let me redefine my stuff to be something like
lunch and we'll define that as the string pizza and let's define be fast for breakfast as the string
eggs say we'll save that call my stuff and if I call lunch let's print this out.
So print out my lunch I should get back pizza when I run the script.
So there's pizza if I ever want to change a key value pair.
What I can do is say the name of the dictionary my stuff called the key.
In this case it's lunch and then set it equal to something new.
So for instance let's say I had a burger for lunch.
We'll save that.
And now when I run this I get burger out and that is changed permanently in this dictionary if I want
to add a new key.
Then all I have to do is say my stuff put a new key here and we can say something like dinner and then
define that to be what I have.
Let's add pasta for her save that run this you know I have Burger let's define Crantz my stuff save
that.
So print the entire dictionary and see here that I printed out burger when I had the first eggs lunch
got redefines a burger and then I had dinner for pasta or pasta for dinner.
OK.
That's really all we need to know about dictionaries.
They should feel very familiar.
Given that you've already done objects with javascript.
One thing that's different with between objects and Javascript and dictionaries in Python is you don't
really have the ability to add methods to dictionaries.
Instead they are just key value pairs just Street hash tables.
You won't be using them for methods inside a dictionary like we did with objects in javascript to do
that with Python we'll have to learn about object oriented programming which would discuss later on
in the course.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.